# K-means-for Protein clustering 
K means is an unsupervised learning approach in machine learning used to find the clusters of data in dataset. There are many other methods to identify the clusters but K-means is observed as the oldest approach of all.

Context:
This data set contains published iTRAQ proteome profiling of 77 breast cancer samples generated by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (NCI/NIH). It contains expression values for ~12.000 proteins for each sample, with missing values present when a given protein could not be quantified in a given sample.

Content:

File: 77cancerproteomesCPTACitraq.csv

RefSeqaccessionnumber: RefSeq protein ID (each protein has a unique
ID in a RefSeq database)
gene_symbol: a symbol unique to each gene (every protein is encoded
by some gene)
gene_name: a full name of that gene
Remaining columns: log2 iTRAQ ratios for each sample (protein
expression data, most important), three last columns are from healthy
individuals


File: clinicaldatabreast_cancer.csv

First column "Complete TCGA ID" is used to match the sample IDs in the main cancer proteomes file (see example script).
All other columns have self-explanatory names, contain data about the cancer classification of a given sample using different methods. 'PAM50 mRNA' classification is being used in the example script.

File: PAM50_proteins.csv

Contains the list of genes and proteins used by the PAM50 classification system. The column RefSeqProteinID contains the protein IDs that can be matched with the IDs in the main protein expression data set.

Reference:
The original study: http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v534/n7605/full/nature18003.html 
